README.md, before:

# Responses starter app

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
![NextJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built_with-NextJS-blue)
![OpenAI API](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered_by-OpenAI_API-orange)

This repository contains a NextJS starter app built on top of the [Responses API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses).
It leverages built-in tools ([web search](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=responses) and [file search](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-file-search)) and implements a chat interface with multi-turn conversation handling.

Features:

- Multi-turn conversation handling
- Web search tool configuration
- Vector store creation & file upload for use with the file search tool
- Function calling
- Streaming responses & tool calls
- Display annotations

This app is meant to be used as a starting point to build a conversational assistant that you can customize to your needs.

## How to use

1. **Set up the OpenAI API:**

   - If you're new to the OpenAI API, [sign up for an account](https://platform.openai.com/signup).
   - Follow the [Quickstart](https://platform.openai.com/docs/quickstart) to retrieve your API key.

2. **Set the OpenAI API key:**

   2 options:

   - Set the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable [globally in your system](https://platform.openai.com/docs/libraries#create-and-export-an-api-key)
   - Set the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable in the project: Create a `.env` file at the root of the project and add the following line (see `.env.example` for reference):

   ```bash
   OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
   ```

3. **Clone the Repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/openai/openai-responses-starter-app.git
   ```

4. **Install dependencies:**

   Run in the project root:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

5. **Run the app:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The app will be available at [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).

## Contributing

You are welcome to open issues or submit PRs to improve this app, however, please note that we may not review all suggestions.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

@claude Add @claude automation setup with git hooks and documentation
- Add README section explaining @claude automation for commits/PRs/Issues
- Include setup instructions for new contributors
- Add git hooks directory and GitHub workflow for automation
- Add scripts directory with setup utilities

README.md, after:

# Responses starter app

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
![NextJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built_with-NextJS-blue)
![OpenAI API](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered_by-OpenAI_API-orange)

This repository contains a NextJS starter app built on top of the [Responses API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses).
It leverages built-in tools ([web search](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=responses) and [file search](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-file-search)) and implements a chat interface with multi-turn conversation handling.

Features:

- Multi-turn conversation handling
- Web search tool configuration
- Vector store creation & file upload for use with the file search tool
- Function calling
- Streaming responses & tool calls
- Display annotations

This app is meant to be used as a starting point to build a conversational assistant that you can customize to your needs.

## How to use

1. **Set up the OpenAI API:**

   - If you're new to the OpenAI API, [sign up for an account](https://platform.openai.com/signup).
   - Follow the [Quickstart](https://platform.openai.com/docs/quickstart) to retrieve your API key.

2. **Set the OpenAI API key:**

   2 options:

   - Set the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable [globally in your system](https://platform.openai.com/docs/libraries#create-and-export-an-api-key)
   - Set the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable in the project: Create a `.env` file at the root of the project and add the following line (see `.env.example` for reference):

   ```bash
   OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
   ```

3. **Clone the Repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/openai/openai-responses-starter-app.git
   ```

4. **Install dependencies:**

   Run in the project root:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

5. **Run the app:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The app will be available at [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).

## @claude Automation Setup

This repository automatically prepends `@claude` to all commits, PRs, and Issues.

### For New Contributors

Run the setup script to configure git hooks:

```bash
chmod +x scripts/setup-hooks.sh
./scripts/setup-hooks.sh
## Contributing

You are welcome to open issues or submit PRs to improve this app, however, please note that we may not review all suggestions.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
